Let's take some time to better
understand segmentation, and
the statistical
methodology of clustering.
You can find a variety of nuances
in the definitions of these terms.
But throughout this class,
we will be considering them,
basically as interchangeable.
Clustering is a statistical methodology
that groups similar objects into
clusters.
In business,
these are often referred to as segments.
So, clustering is what we're doing
from the statistical perspective, and
creating segments, or
segmentation is what we're doing
from the business perspective.
Here's a more technical
definition of clustering.
It's a mathematical procedure for
multidimensional analysis.
Given the characteristics
of a set of objects,
this procedure groups similar
objects into clusters.
The resulting individual groups, contain
the objects that are most similar
to each other, when compared to
those outside of their group.
I understand that that's
not exactly simple.
And it's not necessary to
grasp all that is there.
What's really important to understand
at this point in the class,
is that clustering, and
the resulting clusters or segments,
is not just a process of sorting and
grouping, or binning.
It is based on
a statistical methodology,
that can be applied to
a large number of variables.